Now, we're gonna take a quick
little segue here, and
I wanna talk about immutable operations,
this is very important.
So if you've ever used array, push, I'm
guilty, I've done it a bazillion times.
Unfortunately, that's mutable.
That's bad.
If you ever needed to update
something in an array, array.
splice.
We just chop some up put something
else in, but it is mutable.
Now if you wanna delete
something similar Splice it
out you're done and
these are mutable operations.
Now.
Before I go to this next slide,
I wanna say that it
Initially when I started.
Learning about immutable operations.
I'm like, my gosh,
that's gonna be so hard to do.
I have to learn this new fancy way
to change these things without
really changing them, and
I had a bad attitude.
And then I realized, that it's actually.
The same amount of work if not less and so
Dan Abramoff has a free
egghead course on Redux and
I believe it's like video 16,
17 or 18 in there,
he starts talking about the immutable
equivalent of the immutable operate or
mutable operations, and
it was just like [SOUND] And so
this is where I realized that to
switch from a mutable mindset,
to an immutable mindset,
really was not much of a shift at all.
It's just using a slightly
different toolset,
is well is I'm imagining somebody Is
saying, Well, why does this matter?
Like why would we actually care about
doing an immutable operation versus
immutable operation?
And there's a couple reasons.
So one, and
the big one is that in JavaScript.
The JavaScript runtime,
it garbage collects on,
essentially memory pointers and
that when you create a variable and
you assign something to it, you're
basically allocating a piece of memory and
you're saying, in this memory,
I'm going to store this thing.
Well if you want to evaluate
if that's changed or not, and
you've done it via a mutable operation,
that you actually have to
inspect the contents of that memory
space to see if it's changed.
So where this became a real problem, and
this is where I think react
really changed the game.
Is Angular j s.
It would essentially when
it was evaluating the DOM,
it would go through and
do this deep comparison.
Now imagine you have an array of, I don't
know, let's just say 100 objects and
you need to figure out if an object
in that array has changed.
Well, if you mutate the object, the only
way that you can know that a change is
you have to compare it with the previous
value that can get very, very expensive.
On the other hand, if you return a new
object, you get a new memory pointer and
so if you want to know if something
has changed and you've done it in
an immutable fashion, all you have
to do is compare the memory pointer.
And if the memory pointer has changed,
then you know something has happened and
you just refresh.
And so purely from a garbage
collection standpoint, from a.
Did this change or not?
And do I need to do a deep comparison?
Evaluating the memory pointer.
Being set by returning a new object
versus mutating an existing object
counterintuitively is a lot faster.
Now, the other piece is that when
you have These immutable operations.
In other words, I have this thing
I'm returning this new result.
And it allows you to memorize
the previous result.
And then you can start to kind
of time travel of like this was
the previous result.
This was the previous result.
And you're able to just say,
I did this thing.
I didn't want it and
I'm going to just put it back.
And no harm, nothing is done.
So a really good example of this is
that if you're dealing with a form,
and you've bound an object to it, and
you just start typing, well, anything
that has a reference to that object is
going to start changing in your page.
So I don't know if you've ever seen
this but you basically dump like a user.
Into a form, you start typing and
all of a sudden,
it starts changing in the list over here.
The reason being is because they're
pointing to the same memory pointer.
And so, how you solve that is
if shared mutable state is bad,
and shared state is okay and
mutable state is okay.
It's when you get them
together that things go wrong.
How you solve that problem is you
make if you have to do a mutation,
like around a form is that you break that
connection where it's you have shared
state or mutable state.
If you have shared mutable state,
you need to make it not shared and
mutable and so what you can do here is as
you pass something into like a component.
You just create a copy of it,
you can mutate the copy.
And then when you're done,
you can either save it or throw it away.
So this is why this was a three
minute kind of a dialogue.
why this matters is for
performance reasons.
It's for having kind of a ledger or
being able to undo things and It
prevents some really interesting things in
terms of like distributed state et cetera.
So with that said without further ado,
immutable operations.
So let's take push and we're going
to replace this with concat And
a helpful way that you can find
out is this immutable or not,
is if you go to
the MDN Mozilla Developer Network.
So this is typically where
if I'm reading up on an API,
this is what I use.And
you look at concat and
it says concat method is used
to merge two or more arrays.
So far, so good.
This method does not change the existing
arrays, but instead returns a new array.
And that is the key right there as
you're reading the documentation
on an operation or a method,
and it says instead returns.
You can be like, aha, that's immutable.
Now, on the example at the top,
what we have is we have brackets.
So this is shorthand is we're
saying create a new array, and
then spread out these properties
inside of this new array.
So this is just a fancy
newfangled way to do this.
This is actually what I use quite often.
And essentially you're, instead of having
to use the operator to create the rate,
you're just doing the shorthand and just
spreading everything out in sight of it.
Next, all right,
I need to update an item in a collection.
How do I do that?
Well two ways are you actually
use a combination of two methods.
So the first is map and
then the second is object data science.
So, the map method creates a new so
anytime you create a new
returns a new array with
the results of calling a provided
function on every element in this array so
it loops over,
it performs a function and
then it return a brand new array.
Immutable.
Now, object that assign is
used to copy all the immutable
own properties from one
source basically to another.
It will return the target object.
So in this case, if you look at object dot
assign, we're starting with a brand new
object, the curly braces, and
it's just copying everything over to that.
So this is kind of you can
also use a spread operator but
this is how this works.
Now this works for a shallow copy.
For me personally,
I've never had this be a problem.
In other words, if you need a copy
an array of complex objects and
you need to actually clone the complex
objects, like there's libraries for that.
So I would say rammed a Immutable JS,
but if you don't need that or
you have fairly shallow objects,
then I recommend just using object and
assign or
spread the object into a new array again.
Every time I bring this up somebody
does mention that it is it's only
a shallow copy and
this is true in a lot of cases.
This will be fine if you
have a fairly flat data.
Then it's no problem at all,
barely an inconvenience.
Now delete this one is super easy filter.
The filter method creates drumroll the new
array with all the elements that pass
the test implemented by
the provided function.
And so if you wanna delete something, all
you do is you say, hey, filter over this
array and return everything that does not
match the thing that I want to delete.
Boom.
Done.
Problem solved.
All right.
One last kind of bonus thing
that I think is interesting.
Occasionally I'll use it that
the object dot freeze method.
If you want to,
if you're developing something or
you wanna free something from being
mutated, then this is a way to do this.
So, In essence,
the object is made effectively immutable.
So some it's just cool to know it's
there if you want to test like,
hey, like, am I mutating this?
Well freeze it and see